Add some pictures and explanatory rationale (#214)
tfpauly/privacy-proxy: draft-privacypass-rate-limit-tokens.md

enforce their policies without a stable and unique client identifier.

Privacy Pass tokens in general allow clients to provide anonymous attestation
of various properties. The tokens generated by the basic issuance
protocol ({{ISSUANCE}}) can be used to verify that a client meets a particular
bar for attestation, but cannot be used by a redeeming server to rate-limit
specific clients. This is because there is no mechanism in the issuance protocol

> to link repeated client token requests to the same rate limit context.

Reviewer: What is the "rate limit context"?

```suggestion
to link repeated client token requests in order to apply rate-limiting.
```

content) requests in a month before a paywall is enacted. Origins may want to
differentiate quick refreshes from distinct accesses.

For some applications, the basic issuance protocol from {{ISSUANCE}} could be used to
implement rate limits. In particular, the 'Joint Attester and Issuer' model from {{ARCH}}
could be used to restrict the number of tokens issued to individual clients over a
time window. However, in this deployment model, the Attester and Issuer would learn all
origins used by a specific client, thereby coupling sensitive attestation and redemption
contexts. In some cases this might be a significant portion of browsing history.

## Protocol Overview

> The issuance protocol defined in this document decouples sensitive attestation context
> such as the client identity from the redemption context such as the origin. It does

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issuance protocol defined in this document decouples sensitive information in the attestation context,
such as the client identity, from the information in the redemption context, such as the origin. It does
```

> so by employing the 'Split Origin, Attester, Issuer' model. In this model, the issuer
> learns redemption information like per-origin rate limit policies, and the attester

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so by employing the 'Split Origin, Attester, Issuer' model. In this model, the Issuer
learns redemption information like origin identity (used to determine per-origin rate limit policies), and the Attester
```

> learns attestation information like client identity used to maintain and enforce
> rate limits based on encrypted origins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
learns attestation information like client identity (used to keep track of the previous instances of token issuance).
```

{{fig-example-allow}} shows how this interaction works for client requests that

> are within the rate limit. The client's token request to the attester (constructed
> according to {{request-one}}, and forwarded to the issuer according to {{request-two}})
> contains encrypted information that the issuer uses to identify the relevant rate
> limit policy to apply. This rate limit policy is returned to the attester (according
> to {{response-one}}), which then checks whether or not the client is within this
> policy. If yes, the attester forwards the issuer token response to the client (according
> to {{response-two}}) so that the resulting token can be redeemed to the origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are within the rate limit. The Client's token request to the Attester (constructed
according to {{request-one}}, and forwarded to the Issuer according to {{request-two}})
contains encrypted information that the Issuer uses to identify the relevant rate
limit policy to apply. This rate limit policy is returned to the Attester (according
to {{response-one}}), which then checks whether or not the Client is within this
policy. If yes, the Attester forwards the issuer token response to the Client (according
to {{response-two}}) so that the resulting token can be redeemed by the Origin.
```

        |          |       TokenResponse         |   |           |
        |          |      [ + rate limit ]       |   |           |
        |          |     <-------------------+   |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |          |  in limit?  |    |          |   |           |
        |          |     yes     |    |          |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |   TokenResponse        |    |          |   |           |
        <-----------------+      |    |          |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |          +-------------+    +----------+   |           |
        |                                            |           |
        |                    Redeem                  |           |
        +------------------------------------------------->      |
                                                     |           |
                                                     +-----------+
~~~
{: #fig-example-allow title="Successful rate-limited issuance"}

> {{fig-example-deny}} shows how this interaction works for client requests that
> exceed the rate limit. The client's request to the issuer and the issuer's
> response to the attester are the same. However, in this scenario, the client
> is not within the rate limit, so the attester responds to the client with an
> error instead of the issuer's token response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{fig-example-deny}} shows how this interaction works for client requests that
exceed the rate limit. The Client's request to the Issuer and the Issuer's
response to the Attester are the same. However, in this scenario, the Client
is not within the rate limit, so the Attester responds to the Client with an
error instead of the issuer's token response.
```

        +---------------------------------->     |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |          |       TokenResponse         |   |           |
        |          |      [ + rate limit ]       |   |           |
        |          |     <-------------------+   |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |          |  in limit?  |    |          |   |           |
        |          |      no     |    |          |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |        Error           |    |          |   |           |
        <-----------------+      |    |          |   |           |
        |          |             |    |          |   |           |
        |          +-------------+    +----------+   |           |
        X                                            |           |
  issuance failed                                    +-----------+
~~~
{: #fig-example-deny title="Failed rate-limited issuance"}

> Unlike the basic issuance protocol {{ISSUANCE}}, the rate-limited issuance protocol
> in this document has additional functional and state requirements for client, attester,
> and issuer. {{attester-state}} describes the state that the attester must track
> in order to enforce these limits, {{client-state}} describes the client state necessary
> for successive token requests with the attester, and {{issuer-state}} describes the state
> necessary for the issuer to apply rate limits. The functional description of each
> participant in this protocol is explained in {{issuance}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the basic issuance protocol {{ISSUANCE}}, the rate-limited issuance protocol
in this document has additional functional and state requirements for Client, Attester,
and Issuer. {{attester-state}} describes the state that the Attester must track
in order to enforce these limits, {{client-state}} describes the Client state necessary
for successive token requests with the Attester, and {{issuer-state}} describes the state
necessary for the Issuer to apply rate limits. The functional description of each
participant in this protocol is explained in {{issuance}}
```

This section describes security considerations relevant to the use of this protocol.

## Client Secret Use

The Client Secret key is used for two purposes in this protocol: (1) computing request
signatures and (2) computing the Anonymous Issuer Origin ID (with the corresponding
public key). In general, using the same cryptographic key for two distinct purposes
is considered bad practice. However, analysis of this protocol demonstrates that it

> is safe in this context. The Client Secret MUST NOT be used for any purpose outside

Reviewer: Beyond the fact that it is safe, can we explain why it needs to be reused here?

Author: I gave the reasons for its reuse in the first sentence, so I think is sufficient (without explaining all the previous failed attempts at this protocol).

Reviewer: The first sentence about the client secret use doesn't say why the request signatures and Anonymous Issuer Origin ID are related. Can we add just a couple words on that?

of this protocol.

## Custom Token Request Encapsulation

The protocol in this document uses {{HPKE}} directly to encrypt token request information
to the issuer while also authenticating information exposed to the attester. Oblivious HTTP
{{?OHTTP=I-D.ietf-ohai-oblivious-http}}, which is a protocol built on top of HPKE for
request encapsulation, is not suitable for this purpose since it does not allow clients to

> additionally authenticate application-layer information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additionally authenticate application-layer information that is visible to intermediaries,
which is the case for the data visible to the Attester.
```
